5G is the fifth generation mobile network. It is a new global wireless standard after 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G networks. 5G enables a new kind of network that is designed to connect virtually everyone and everything together including machines, objects, and devices.
LTE stands for Long Term Evolution and is a registered trademark owned by ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute) for the wireless data communications technology and a development of the GSM/UMTS standards.
VoLTE (Voice over Long Term Evolution) is a standard for high-speed wireless communication for mobile phones and data terminals, including Internet of things (IoT) devices and wearables.
Optical fiber is a flexible, transparent fiber made by drawing glass (silica) or plastic to a diameter slightly thicker than that of a human hair. Optical fibers are used most often as a means to transmit light between the two ends of the fiber and find wide usage in fiber-optic communications.
A Base Station (BS) provides the connection between the mobile phones and the wider telephone network. In a modern cellular network, the base station is technically referred to as a NodeB or eNodeB (in LTE) or gNodeB (in 5G).
A SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) is an integrated circuit that is intended to securely store the international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) number and its related key, which are used to identify and authenticate subscribers on mobile telephony devices.
CDMA (Code-Division Multiple Access) is an example of multiple access, where several transmitters can send information simultaneously over a single communication channel.
Fiber-to-the-Home (FTTH) is the delivery of a communications signal over optical fiber from the operator's switching equipment all the way to a home or business.
OSI Model (Open Systems Interconnection model) is a conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the communication functions of a telecommunication or computing system without regard to its underlying internal structure and technology. It consists of 7 layers: Physical, Data Link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation, and Application.
